---
title: "Can you have child safety and Section 230, too?"
source: "https://www.platformer.news/social-media-trials-230-content-design/"
published: Wed, 01 Apr 2026 01:41:03 GMT
tags:
  - clippings
---

I. In the aftermath of last week’s landmark rulings in lawsuits against Meta and YouTube (in Los Angeles) and Meta alone (in New Mexico), reactions fell into three basic camps. One camp, represented by the plaintiffs, was euphoric. Finally, this side said, Big Tech would be held accountable for the harms caused to children by their platforms. “The jury’s verdict is a historic victory for every child and family who has paid the price for Meta’s choice to put profits over kids’ safety,” New Mexico Attorney General Raúl Torrez said in a statement after the verdict in that case. “Meta executives knew their products harmed children, disregarded warnings from their own employees, and lied to the public about what they knew. Today the jury joined families, educators, and child safety experts in saying enough is enough.”A second camp, represented by the defendants, was defiant: both Meta and YouTube said they plan to appeal.The third camp — and the one that has most interested me — are the writers, academics and thinkers who are trying to figure out what these verdicts mean for the wider internet. To this camp, it is self-evident that the tech platforms are villains of one sort or another. But in accepting the framing that their products have design defects for which they can be held liable, this camp argues, juries might have broken the basic compact that holds the internet together. And should these verdicts be upheld on appeal, they worry that platforms will begin restricting far more speech than they ever did previously. What once were open forums for robust debate may come to feel increasingly sanitized and even censored.The basic compact at the center of these cases is, of course, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which prevents companies from being held liable in most cases for what their users post. If I libel you on Facebook, you are free to sue me, but Meta gets a free pass. The case that spurred lawmakers to create Section 230 was a defamation case like this; they worried that if you could sue a platform out of existence just because one user had defamed another, the internet would be at risk of collapse. For 30 years, Section 230 has shielded platforms from liability for nearly everything their users do — from defamation to drug sales to incitement. It has also, along with the First Amendment, enabled an enormous amount of political speech.Last week’s verdicts are important because they appear to demonstrate a clear path for people who believe they have been harmed by platforms to get around the shield: they only have to prove that the harms that they experienced resulted from the way the platform is designed.In these cases, that means features including recommendation algorithms, “beauty” filters, infinite scroll, autoplay video, “streaks,” and barrages of push notifications. More worryingly, in the New Mexico case, encrypted messaging was also implicated.Jurors were convinced that these features caused problematic use of Instag
