---
title: "Sam Altman’s second thoughts"
source: "https://www.platformer.news/sam-altman-ai-backlash/"
published: Tue, 14 Apr 2026 01:29:49 GMT
tags:
  - clippings
---

Platformer is off Tuesday. This is a column about AI. My fiancé works at Anthropic. See my full ethics disclosure here.I. Early Friday morning, according to a criminal complaint, a 20-year-old man threw a Molotov cocktail at Sam Altman’s house before driving to OpenAI headquarters and threatening to kill everyone inside.The incident came a few days after someone fired 13 rounds at the home of an Indianapolis city councilor who had expressed support for a data center project; a note left at the scene read “no data centers.”The escalating political violence over AI is terrifying, morally wrong, and completely ineffectual. The spread of AI systems, despite their growing unpopularity, will not be stopped by a few stray bullets. And among the many reasons to be alarmed by incidents like the ones we have seen over the past week is that the perpetrators seem too disturbed to understand that.On Friday afternoon — in between the firebombing and a shooting near his property that the company said was unrelated — Altman reflected: on the attacks, last week’s New Yorker investigation into his tenure as CEO, the state of AI, and growing public unease about the technology. After talking up AI’s potential to create great benefits, he also sought to validate the fears of those afraid of what the future might bring. “The fear and anxiety about AI is justified,” Altman wrote, underneath a photo of his husband and baby. “We are in the process of witnessing the largest change to society in a long time, and perhaps ever.”Altman excels at reassuring you that he is on your side — this is one of the themes of the New Yorker profile — and he takes pains here to find common ground. He says he does not want to see AI power become too concentrated, and that it should be governed democratically. “It is important that the democratic process remains more powerful than companies,” he writes, in one of many lines in the piece that I wholeheartedly agree with.Altman concludes by saying he sympathizes with anti-tech sentiment and “welcome[s] good-faith criticism and debate.” “While we have that debate,” he writes, “we should de-escalate the rhetoric and tactics and try to have fewer explosions in fewer homes, figuratively and literally.”II.Altman was writing in the aftermath of a traumatic event, and I’m tempted to leave it there. There’s nothing wrong with calling on cooler heads to prevail, or to hope that the past week’s violence was an aberration. I hope it was, too.And yet I keep coming back to Altman’s phrase “de-escalate the rhetoric.” After all, it was Altman and his fellow AI CEOs who have spent the past decade speaking about AI in existential terms; some of that language can be found in Altman’s very blog post calling for calm.He’s been writing that way for a long time.“Development of superhuman machine intelligence is probably the greatest threat to the continued existence of humanity,” Altman wrote in a 2015 blog post. Speculating on the arrival of superintelligence, he
