---
title: "Spotify takes on its doppelgänger problem"
source: "https://www.platformer.news/spotify-artist-profile-protection/"
published: Wed, 25 Mar 2026 00:00:00 GMT
tags:
  - clippings
---

Programming note: Platformer will be off on Thursday.Call it the invasion of the stream snatchers. In November, Platformer reported on a strange phenomenon taking place on the world’s biggest music platform. Artists who had left Spotify found that, within a few months, some of their tracks and albums had reappeared within the app. At times, the tracks sounded like bad imitations of the original. At others, they sounded nothing like the original at all. Regardless of their fidelity to the original, though, imitation tracks were racking up millions of streams — and generating revenue in the name of the authentic artist.As I wrote last year, this was particularly annoying to groups like the Australian psychedelic rock band King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard, which had quit Spotify on principle last year after news that then-Spotify CEO Daniel Ek led a €600 million investment in Helsing, which makes military drones and AI tools for weapons systems. They wanted their name and works off Spotify for good. They thought they had left. How were they supposed to police their presence on the platform, when they weren’t supposed to have a presence there at all?Spotify removed a host of impostor Gizzard tracks last year after Platformer inquired. Among the challenges, the company told me, is that AI-powered music apps are making it increasingly easy to generate convincing fakes. But the larger question remained. Spotify creates strong financial incentives for this kind of domain squatting. Would the company intervene to stop it?On Tuesday, we got our answer. The company introduced a new feature in beta called artist profile protection designed to prevent what happened to King Gizzard from happening to anyone else.The company described how it works in a blog post:For the first time on any music streaming service, we’re giving you the ability to review and approve or decline releases delivered to Spotify from most providers. To protect your artist identity and prevent listener confusion, only the releases you approve will appear on your artist profile, contribute to your stats, and show up in recommendations to your listeners.Artist Profile Protection isn’t necessary for every artist, but could make sense if you’ve experienced repeated incorrect releases, have a common artist name, or want more control over what appears on your profile. It requires you to actively review releases before they go live, so may delay or block your legitimate releases if you forget to take an action. It's best for those who are comfortable very actively managing their catalog.The company will also assign artists a unique code, called an artist key, to share with the teams that manage their catalogs. They can include the key when submitting music to Spotify so that it is automatically approved to show up on the artist’s profile.  On one level, this is one of those features that makes you wonder how the platform hadn’t thought to do this already. In hindsight it seems crazy that you co
